Java Practically

There is a hierarchy when downloading the "Java stuff" you need. 


SIMPLY GET THE JDK. DONE.

My outlook:

JDK (Java Development Kit): 
Effectively all you need to get started. It's like the root file of everything Java - everything's inside.
Useful tools I'll mention at this level of the file system are: 
1) Java Compiler (javac), -----------------------------
2) Java Archive Tool (jar), and also the jlink tool (version 9+)
3) Document Generator Tool (javadoc)
4) Java Debugger (jdb)
5) Java Class Dissembler (javap) ----------------------
*) Then there's also "Runtime" stuff - like the fact that common .java files concern the Application Launcher.
*) Finally the familiar "Java Standard Library" (technically an API) is stored here too, in the lib folder.

      JRE (Java Runtime Environment):
      A folder within the JDK. It's important because it holds the JVM (Java Virtual Machine) seen below.
      Also, it holds whatever "libaries are needed for runtime". Apparently before Java 9 these runtime libraries were literal
      duplicates of files from inside the JDK's lib folder (a level up from here), but then, from version 9 onward this stopped,
      and now the "library stuff" needed at runtime is sourced directly from that lib folder (in sophisticated ways). There is no
      the need for duplicates.

            JVM (Java Virtual Machine):
            A buzz term... The idea is the JVM lets Java code run on any hardware! Yay. It executes the Java bytecode directly. In a 
            sense your computer doesn't touch the code. In my experience, good features to understand about the JVM are 
            1) It uses a Just-In-Time (JIT) complier
            2) It performs garbage collection (part of memory management)
            (Again, all it's roles make it sophisticated. You don't (I don't) need to know much more - if stuff breaks, then we learn and fix it!)



_____Stupid stuff:_____

"Java Standard Edition" - pointless term. 

This is how the Java community thinks it works... Java Standard Edition -> includes the JDK and JRE, with its JVM... Like what?

AND SO, I WILL FINISH THE WAY I STARTED - GET THE JDK, IT'S THAT SIMPLE.

